[Music]
let's chat about space fashion shall we
the bright orange color astronauts wear
to go out for launch is called
international orange and is the same
shade as the paint that coats Tokyo
Tower in Japan and the Golden Gate
Bridge in San Francisco
however once astronauts are in space
they swap orange for snow-white evening
wear it's always evening in space so
what gives with the different colors
well there are actually two main types
of spacesuits the first one is the
advanced crew escape suit also known as
the orange suit also known as the
pumpkin suit trick-or-treat astronauts
wear this full pressure suit during
liftoff these space suits are crucial
for those who are heading for super high
altitudes there the pressure is so low
that people can't survive without a
special protective suit anyway the
orange suit is equipped with different
stuff that can help an astronaut to
survive if something goes wrong during
the launch or the landing of the
spaceship for example a usual pumpkin
suit is stocked with Flair's survival
gear medications a radio and a parachute
and a bunch of candy in case the costume
kitties come to the house hmm not really
well ok I get it
astronauts wouldn't live through the
process of leaving Earth without the
orange suit but still why this color
well the main reason for picking orange
is that this hue is one of the most
visible for search and rescue including
sea rescue hmm makes sense all right how
about the white bulky spacesuits ahh
these are evie a which stands for extra
vehicular activities suits and their
purpose is totally different from that
of the orange suits astronauts wear Evo
suits when they go on a spacewalk such
an outfit can protect them from the
unfriendly conditions of outer space but
with its extreme temperatures and near
vacuum
besides the white suit can prevent small
debris from hurting space travelers you
might have noticed that evie a suits are
much bulkier than the orange ones that's
because they contain numerous layers of
insulation
and heavy protective fabric on top of
that they contain breathable air
drinkable water and temperature controls
also every time an astronaut goes on a
spacewalk he is a tether that ties them
to the space station however in the case
the tether tears the evie suit has a
backup system this system includes small
jet thrusters which can be controlled
from the station with the help of a
joystick as for the color the white hue
reflects the heat of the Sun better than
the others as a result astronauts don't
get too hot
what's more the white color is best when
it comes to spotting a tiny dot of an
astronaut against the vast expanse of
black black space when curious detail
while white space suits protect
astronauts from getting too hot they
can't prevent them from getting too cool
and that's when the space man's gloves
come into play yep they have embedded
heaters which keep astronauts fingers
cozy and functioning and speaking of
cool how about some more cool facts
about astronauts that will give you a
sneak peek at their highly unusual lives
while sleeping astronauts must have
exceptionally good air flow around them
otherwise the carbon dioxide they exhale
can form a bubble around their heads and
they'll become oxygen deprived when one
astronaut threw a boomerang inside the
International Space Station it returned
to him so just remember that as long as
there's some air which provides the
necessary forces even weightlessness
won't prevent you from having a bit of
fun astronauts have to get rid of their
clothes after each use see for yourself
to bring a mere 1 pound of laundry to
the International Space Station cost
more than 10 thousand dollars so it
costs less to throw the clothing away
when it gets dirty than to waste water
on washing it Skylab was the first
American space station which operated
for about a half a year from May 1973 to
February 1974 its interior was pretty
big and the astronauts sometimes got
stuck in the middle from there they'd
have to wait for the currents of air to
them closer to a wall or try to swim
back through the air months after coming
back from long missions in space
astronauts still tend to let go of
things while they're still in midair
they've gotten so accustomed to
everything floating they get a shot when
the object simply crashed to the floor
there was an astronaut who had been
waiting for a whopping 19 years before
he finally flew into space the thing is
that the mission he had been selected to
go on got canceled then he remained a
backup for other astronauts only in 1985
did the persistent astronaut managed to
fly on the space shuttle all American
astronauts have to learn Russian to be
able to run the International Space
Station using Russian language manuals
if there's no alternative there's a
specially trained person who smells
every single thing that astronauts take
with them into space
it's done to protect them from
unpleasant or toxic odors the thing is
that you can't really air the room out
in space if you don't like how it smells
inside that's why NASA is extremely
careful about what kinds of odors are
allowed to pass through during space
adaptation 50 to 75 percent of
astronauts have highly unpleasant
syndromes such as vertigo headaches
nausea and overall tiredness well that
doesn't sound like fun luckily
everything goes back to normal within 72
hours when astronauts are in space they
often see random flashes of light and
it's not hallucinations cosmic rays that
hit the optic nerve create this effect
you don't see similar flashes here on
earth because the magnetosphere doesn't
let cosmic rays reach it and that's a
good thing if an astronaut needs to
scratch their nose while wearing the
evie a suit there's a patch of velcro
inside the helmet I was always wondering
about that before going into space
astronauts have underwater training
which is supposed to simulate zero
gravity but in fact it is nothing in
common with being in outer space so the
main purpose of the underwater training
is to see how future astronauts can deal
with extreme and
hermits if you've always dreamed of
growing a bit taller you should probably
go into space due to the lack of gravity
astronauts grow on average two inches
taller during their mission but they
shrink back several months after they
return to Earth obviously if someone
gets injured on the space station they
can't be rushed to a hospital right away
that's why each astronaut is extensively
trained so that they can deal with
medical emergencies before flying to
space potential astronauts have to get
through incredibly tough competition
according to NASA they accept only eight
applicants out of 6,000 on top of that
this selection process takes around 18
months when an astronaut returns from a
long stay on the ISS they feel
incredibly clumsy after being used to
the lack of gravity in space it's
difficult to adapt to the necessity of
climbing steps or going around furniture
the lack of gravity also makes sneezing
inside a spacesuit a serious problem if
they absolutely have to sneeze
astronauts bend their heads downward and
sneeze into their chest otherwise their
visors would have to be equipped with
windshield wipers and that's not very
pleasant astronauts have been replacing
bread with flour tortillas since the mid
80s the thing is that crumbly foods are
understandably not allowed on the space
station because stray crumbs can damage
the equipment tortillas on the other
hand don't present such a risk besides
they instantly became very popular with
the astronauts they also fly very well
in a weightless environment if an
astronaut cries in space tears don't
flow down their face instead they gather
into thick blobs of liquid around their
eyes because the water surface tension
holds tears together surprisingly when
coming back after a mission away from
the earth astronauts still have to pass
through customs for example when Apollo
11 returned from the moon the spacemen
had to declare the moon dust moon rocks
and other samples they'd collected on
their trip to a foreign land
I mean really far away astronauts who
forget to attach themselves to something
when they sleep can easily float away
and bump into a hard surface that's why
they usually rest in sleeping bags in a
small crew cabin to shower without
gravity isn't an easy feat thus
astronauts take a shower in an enclosed
cylinder which keeps the water from
floating away they use a no rinse
shampoo spray themselves with water to
rinse off the silk and finally use a
vacuum hose which sucks up all the water
from their bodies the ISS orbits our
planet at a very high speed I mean it
only takes 92 minutes to make a full
circle that's why astronauts see a
sunrise and a sunset every 45 minutes
which totals 15 to 16 sunsets and
sunrises each day and if you want to see
the space station fly over your house
during the morning or evening hours
check out spot the station nasa.gov type
in your town and they'll send you a
heads-up with the exact times when you
can run out and wave to the astronauts
as they fly overhead hey if you learn
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life